Really Bad Eggs
---------------

Really Bad Eggs started life as a remake of Super Foul Egg, itself a clone of
Puyo Puyo released for the Commodore Amiga in 1995.  However, I took the
opportunity to mix in some game mechanics from Tetris to make a game more akin
to how I always wished it worked.


Game Mechanics
--------------

Coloured eggs drop down the screen in pairs.  They can be rotated in clockwise
and anticlockwise directions.  The objective is to arrange eggs of the same
colour so that their edges touch and the eggs connect.  When four or more eggs
of the same colour are connected in a chain, the eggs disappear from the grid
and any eggs above them drop down.  Scores increase dramatically if:

 - More than four eggs are connected in a single chain;
 - Several chains are removed at once;
 - The removal of a chain causes eggs to fall, which in turn makes additional
   chains of eggs.


Game Types
----------

Really Bad Eggs features three game types.  The first is a kind of cross between
Puyo Puyo and Tetris' A game.  Every time 10 chains of eggs are created, the
level increases.  Each level increase brings with it an increase in speed.  Try
to achieve the highest score possible before the game gets too fast to play.

The second type is a cross between Puyo Puyo and Tetris' B game.  The objective
is to get 25 chains.  A random distribution of eggs is placed in the grid when
the game starts.  The number of eggs and the speed of the game depends on the
difficulty chosen.

The last game type is a two-player mode against the CPU.   In this mode, the
level does not increase.  The objective is to survive longer than the CPU
player.

Each time chains are made in this mode, garbage eggs are dumped into the
opponent's grid.  These grey eggs do not connect with other eggs in the grid and
can only be removed by creating chains with eggs adjacent to them.  The number
of garbage eggs generated by chains is related to the number of points earned
for those chains, so creating more chains, longer chains or sequences of chains
will create more garbage eggs for your opponent's displeasure.


Scoring
-------

The formula for each chain is:

  10 * eggs * (eggs - 3) * sequence

Where:

 - eggs is the number of eggs in the chain;
 - (eggs - 3) is the number of extra eggs in the chain above the 4 minimum;
 - sequence is the number of times the grid has chained and dropped in sequence.

If a player explodes a chain of 4 red eggs and a chain of 5 green eggs
simultaneously, he gets the following scores:

  10 * 4 * (4 - 3) * 1 = 40
  10 * 5 * (5 - 3) * 1 = 100

He gets a total of 140 points for the two chains.

The grid drops down to fill in any gaps, and in doing so creates another chain
of 4 blue eggs.  These explode giving the following score:

  10 * 4 * (4 - 3) * 2 = 80

He gets 10 points for each egg (10 * 4 = 40).  The chain includes only the
minimum number of eggs (4 - 3) so he gets no bonus there.  However, this is
the second set of chains exploded, so the final score is doubled (40 * 2 = 80).
The running total so far is 120.

The grid drops to fill in any gaps again, and two more chains are created: 6
yellow eggs and 5 orange eggs.  The scores this time are:

  10 * 6 * (6 - 3) * 3 = 540
  10 * 5 * (5 - 3) * 3 = 300

The total for these two chains is 840, giving an overall score of 960.

Play then resumes, and the sequence multiplier resets to 1.


Garbage Eggs
------------

The number of garbage eggs generated by chains is calculated using the following
formula:

  score / 40

40 is the score given for exploding a single chain of 4 eggs.  So, if a player
explodes 4 eggs in one chain, one garbage egg will be generated.  If a player
then explodes 6 eggs in one chain immediately afterwards due to eggs falling to
fill in the gaps in the grid, another 9 eggs are generated.  The score is:

  10 * 6 * (6 - 3) * 2 = 360

The number of eggs is therefore:

  360 / 40 = 9

If the player has any incoming garbage eggs, their numbers are reduced before
the outgoing count is increased.  For example, if the player has 6 incoming
garbage eggs, the number of outgoing eggs will be:

  9 - 6 = 3

The number of incoming eggs will be 0.  However, if the player has 11 incoming
garbage eggs, the number of outgoing eggs would be 0, whilst the incoming eggs
would be:

  11 - 9 = 2


Levels
------

Play advances through one level every time 10 chains are created.  The current
level can therefore be said to be equal to the integer result of the following
formula:

  total chains / 10

Each increase in level increases the speed at which eggs automatically drop down
the screen.